S3 STORAGE
==========


- [S3 STORAGE](#s3-storage)
  - [MISSION](#mission)
  - [PROVIDER](#provider)
  - [EXTERNAL DOKUMENTATION](#external-dokumentation)
  - [PRICING](#pricing)
    - [Minimum charge](#minimum-charge)
  - [TOOLING](#tooling)
  - [EXAMPLES](#examples)
    - [Pulumi backend](#pulumi-backend)
    - [s3cmd](#s3cmd)
  - [CONNECTION BETWEEN BUCKETS AND KEYS](#connection-between-buckets-and-keys)


MISSION
-------

S3 storage is use for the state of Pulumi


PROVIDER
--------

The provider / hoster of S3 is impossiblecloud.com.


EXTERNAL DOKUMENTATION
----------------------

- [impossible cloud help](https://docs.impossiblecloud.com/impossible-cloud-help/)


PRICING
-------

Quota impossible cloud:

    At Impossible Cloud Storage, we follow a decimal storage calculation where 1 terabyte (TB) is considered 1,000 gigabytes (GB), and 1 gigabyte is considered 1,000 megabytes (MB). This means that when you see our storage pricing of €7.99 per terabyte for the 'Pay-per-use' plan, it is equivalent to €0.00799 per gigabyte.
    We adopt this calculation method to provide a consistent and transparent pricing structure for our users. Using a base of 1,000 rather than 1,024 simplifies the storage calculation process and allows for easier budgeting and cost management.
    When estimating your storage requirements and understanding the associated costs, keep in mind that each gigabyte is comprised of 1,000 megabytes and each terabyte is comprised of 1,000 gigabytes. This ensures clarity and accuracy when calculating your storage expenses with Impossible Cloud Storage.


### Minimum charge

Quota impossible cloud:

    For ease of processing, Impossible Cloud charges a minimum consumption fee of €7.99 for the EU region or $7.99 for the US region - this is only valid for the 'Pay-per-Use'-plans.
    Additional consumption is charged on a price of €0.00799 or $0.00799 per GB and month.


TOOLING
-------

- The web console of [console.impossiblecloud.com/](https://console.impossiblecloud.com/)
  - Attanchon! All regions has his own web console: [us-west-1](https://console.impossiblecloud.com/), [eu-central-1](https://console.eu.impossiblecloud.com/), [eu-central-2](https://console.eu-2.impossiblecloud.com/)
- [S3Drive](https://s3drive.app/) is an easy to use client for S3.


EXAMPLES
--------

### Pulumi backend

```bash
pulumi login 's3://pulumi?region=us-west-1&endpoint=us-west-1.storage.impossibleapi.net'
```

### s3cmd

Pre step:

```bash
s3cmd --configure
```

...and answer the question. After here enter:

```bash
s3cmd la s3://pulumi
```

CONNECTION BETWEEN BUCKETS AND KEYS
-----------------------------------


First of all, you have two different kind of users: a root user, which is
automatically created with the storage account, and an IAM user (also known
as a sub-user).

If you create access key pair under the root user, those keys have no
limitations and can control all the buckets.

To limit an access to one or a few buckets, please do the following:

1. [Create a bucket](https://docs.impossiblecloud.com/impossible-cloud-help/impossible-cloud-storage-guide/buckets-and-objects/creating-a-bucket)
2. [Create a policy](https://docs.impossiblecloud.com/impossible-cloud-help/security/identity-access-management-iam/managing-policies) for that bucket including the permissions you need. You can use multiple buckets within the same policy with the same or different access permissions.
3. [Create an IAM user](https://docs.impossiblecloud.com/impossible-cloud-help/security/identity-access-management-iam/managing-users)
4. [Create a group](https://docs.impossiblecloud.com/impossible-cloud-help/security/identity-access-management-iam/managing-groups). Assign the user and the policy created on the steps above by selecting the checkboxes. Click "Add".
5. Open the "Users" tab on the left, click on your new IAM user.
6. Click "Access Keys" under that user and create a new access key.

Result: the access key pair belong to that user and will have permissions
described in the policy to the buckets which also described in the policy.